---
layout: post
title: "Hello, New World!"
date: 2013-02-23 15:18
comments: true
categories:
---
This is my first blog post since I began Portland Code School. My life before
was spent working, taking basic CS classes, writing an audio drama, and starting
an animation project. After just finishing the first week of PCS, I am exhausted
and happy – and can feel my brain expanding. Yay learning!

So, I am back on the blog bandwagon though my format has changed. I plan
to mix and match some personal observations of my current life with, hopefully,
well thought out articles on what I find in the tech world and beyond. What is
this code school I speak of?

Portland Code School is a new, immersive program that lasts 12 weeks and
currently has 9 students learning to become developers. We all have different
backgrounds and skill sets – the commonality being that we all have passion for
programming. Chuck is an excellent teacher/facilitator and we both share Evergreen
backgrounds, which is comforting.

The first week was a nice loop of intro to retrospective. Being fairly new at
using Macs, I spent quite a bit of time setting up the new-to-me MacBook Pro and
arguing with the two-finger click. After getting a handle of the basics, the
class reviewed HTML and CSS and ended the week with an introduction to Ruby.
We’ve been following Treehouse which has mostly videos and quizzes. On my own,
I’ve been working through Codecademy to work through problems and typing syntax.
Our assignments were challenging and there were many late nights – trying to
keep up and catch up to some of the more experienced students. But here it is –
one of my assignments is to update my blog. Done and done. Oh, and the other
homework will be on github (10 pages HTML) is a ME ME ME sight that I enjoyed
styling. I’ll edit/post that when I know the link. Follow me on Twitter -
@fayeishere and Github

{{ page.content | number_of_words }}