---
layout: post
title: "Week 6"
date: 2013-03-14 13:52
comments: true
categories:
---
Backtracking a bit...Rails! MVC! What is it and why do we care? Model View Controller is the framework for creating an organized and effective web application. This is fantastic and adds to the complexity of it all. Rails makes it easy to connect to the browser and create a dynamic site. The complexity lives in the fact that not everything is useful for each situation. Maybe we don't need a lib/tasks file for this project. But it's nice to have the option as a sort of "suggestion". We jumped into Rails and continued our work on pushing forward with the Humanity Wars App. Scaffold magic. The Humanity Wars web application started as a student project idea and has morphed over different stages and techniques. First we used Sinatra and were confronted with limitations. Now that we are using Rails we've moved on to address specific "issues" associated with the GitHub project - creating bonus features and fixing inconsistencies.

For the second half of each day we continued to work on our group projects. The Kickstarter App that we "designed" was handed off to the developers (the other class group) and they are creating an epic organizer to help folks who want to start a Kickstarter Project. Our group acts as the stakeholders and we've been engaged in daily stand-ups to keep up with the progress. For OUR developing project we are creating a Freecycle App that takes freecycle offer postings and maps them out in order to make it easier for a user to see what is happening in their location. So far, we have managed to get the general layout in order and split off into 3 focuses. Will is looking at parsing emails (to get the address data), Cris is using Bootstrap to create the interface and make a good looking page, and I am focusing on the JavaScript to use GoogleMaps API and populate the map. Phew.