---
layout: post
title: "Retro & Internship - First Week"
date: 2013-08-21 20:18
comments: true
categories:
---
Retro alert! My last day working at "the bookstore" was mid Jan. Two weeks later I started code school and this blog ~ lasting 12 weeks. Afterwards, I spent a month interviewing/interning at a potential company that in the end decided to not hire me. They loved the feature I produced but the actual code was too newbie for their situation. I took the news well and badly at the same time - I worked hard and their decision taught me a lot about tech culture and preferences. I got paid and got to get my hands dirty in a real company's code. Pretty cool. But why didn't I get the job? Plainly put - I didn't fit what they wanted. That's a hard thing to realize as a new kid on the tech block. I won't say that the Imposter Syndrome never happened. I thought a lot about it, trying to take it as a life lesson, and I realized it came down to what I wanted - not what I was capable of. I know I can focus on logic and build applications that are concise and beautiful, but honestly it's not my passion. I like to build things that work and then refactor later. Lazy? Maybe. But, at the end of the day I "make" and then it's out there. Hurry up to slow down.

Some thoughts on coding: Having honest reflections about coding is really hard and interesting. I look at my github page which to me looks like a Jackson Pollock painting. Or an attempt at one at least. There are a few things I'm proud of but most are random experiments that I am simply storing on a free platform since I switch computers every few months. And I've realized I'm a code hoarder. If there is even a line of code I may use again I'll keep a whole lot of nothing just in case. I should work on that, really. But what this all means is that I'm exposing my code to the world. I'm not afraid to put bad experiments on github - maybe I should be but #1 We all have to start somewhere and #2 I'm honest #3 I want feedback.

Back to Retro: I've always been an inventor, which is why I got into coding, and I could do it ALL DAY. So, with the freedom of two months unemployed I made sites on my own, tinkered with new technologies, abandoned some, and stuck with others. If I wasn't passionate about what I was working on I moved on. And that is what pushed me forward when the reality of joblessness and overwhelming learning kept knocking at the front door. I kept at it - pulled freelance work in and simply put: stayed excited about it all. And then a magical opportunity fell into my lap.

After two months of freelance work and finding direction I got a head's up about an internship that I felt in no way qualified for. But it was with an infamous and intriguing company so, of course, I applied. I never felt nervous because I felt that it was such a long shot that I'd just have fun going through the process. And the process lasted for a month so I convinced myself that, of course, they weren't going to hire me. Well, I was gratefully wrong. I wasn't quite right for the internship they were looking for but they liked me enough to make room for me in a new title. So...

Here I am - working at a space that treats me in the exact opposite from what I've ever known. Just a few perks: there is free soda, events with free food, and we don't have to do our dishes. Can you imagine? Yesterday, Day 1, I signed forms and familiarized myself with the building and systems. I also got my new computer up and running with the environments I wanted/needed. I thought it would be a complicated affair, but apparently all I really care about is having sublime, iterm, and homebrew. Updated a few things on the machine. Fairly smooth  - which gives me confidence that I may have learned a thing or two in the last 7 months. Which is weird to think about. My second day was spent setting up a virtual environment for Python and getting Flask and Django working. That enabled me to clone a current project repo and start reviewing. I am super excited! Passion = possibilities. Church.