---
layout: post
title: "And Beyond!"
date: 2013-07-23 15:18
comments: true
categories:
---
Now where was I? Where am I? It's been three months since my last post. Enter: Mr. Stating The Obvious. My last post I was catching up and neglected weeks 10 thru 12 of code school blogging. Why? After spending night and day at the computer, learning to code, networking ~ I hit a breaking point. Good or bad? Both. I wasn't eating enough, kept pushing myself, and finally started gaining some understanding of what I was actually doing. I've heard this happening with people who fast or run marathons. During the final week one of my classmates said that he was reminded of a time when he climbed a mountain, completely unprepared, thought he would die, and when he was done he ate a pizza and could only focus on "how amazing that pizza was". I was hungry.

Week 10 and 11 were straightforward enough. Our internship at Crowd Compass continued in full swing ~ they wanted a dashboard for their employees. The only problem was that we were unsure of who would be working on it (classmate-wise) and in the end there were too many of us (without a leader) on this one project. There were many directions and mistakes until we split off to two groups (one to make a dashboard using an Opensource framework and the other to test out a dashboard sevice). All of us jumped around a bit and checked in with each other and learned a lot. We were there a few days a week and it was challenging to come back and jump back in after not being there - but we did it and it was educational. Outside of the internship my classmate and I continued to finalize our Freecycle App, I made a quick weather app to practice my API and jquery skills, and prepared for the final.

Week 12. Oh boy. 12 weeks is not a lot of time, but when you are worried that you need to pay your school bill once it is over - well then 12 weeks can motivate the snot out of you. I was pumped, scared, and dizzy. We finished: I presented a demo of the freecycle site, we presented the dashboard options to Crowd Compass, and I got an A on the final. Having gone to Evergreen where there are few tests and no grades, this was an interesting stress. In the end we all had a retrospective and celebrated by drinking beers at a local pub with our diplomas and loved ones. Success! We made it!

Then what? Well, right now I'm overcooking sausages on the grill in my backyard while I take a break from making an Ecard site. It's summer in Portland and I'm super stoked that I'm not working in the warehouse that I was in last year. I haven't applied directly to any places (I've been interviewing with a few that reached me) and have been doing freelance work to pay the bills. Freelancing is fascinating and I know I'll dedicate an entire post to that later. But, for now, it's working out - slowly but surely. And, of course, my learning has not ended. I spend at least four hours of my day watching videos, going through code challenges, and reading articles to keep me up to date. I made <a href="http://codeforunicorns.com">Code For Unicorns</a> to help me process what I'm learning, have a place for online learning links, and to maybe help others just starting out.

To be honest, I really would like to get a job at a company but am finding that most places want a few years experience just to fix bugs. Which I totally understand, but really? - I have things I want to make. And I'm holding out for a company that is willing to help me learn while I work on their features, ideas, or anything creative. My code might not be optimal at times - but I learn quick and get things done. I miss pair programming and working on a team project.

Most of what I'm learning right now is PHP for a variety of reasons. It's a good language for freelance work for a basic web site. Not the most flashy or satisfying but it's really good to know. I've also realized that I might be a JavaScript nerd. So many people complain about it - but I only see possibility. Maybe that's the newbie in me but JS feels where the action is. And I'm super excited about node.js. Nerd alert! But to summate - I've been full swing in the developer biz for 6 months and I find myself telling everyone looking for a change that they should do the same. So far, so good.
