---
layout: post
title: "Week 5"
date: 2013-03-08 10:31
comments: true
categories:
---
Wow. This week was pretty crazy. Week 5 shifted us into two distinct parts
of the day. The first half is lecture and application like the previous four
weeks. The second half is now being focused on working on web apps that
we are developing in our groups. One half of the class designed a project
for the other and that group develops it. And vice versa. This was a lot
of fun - being able to be creative and code at the same time.

And THEN - Ruby On Ales. I could sum it up with the exiting presentation
by the organizers who engaged us with a cover of "Call Me Maybe" with lyrics
that included "Ruby's crazy - so here's a lambda, call it maybe". Nerd love.
There was so much that happened - presentations (obviously), beer, socializing,
games, did I say beer? Beer. I was the dork who couldn't hang with the
9 am brew drinkers but I appreciated everyone's love of code and ale. And
I will say the afternoons were a little fuzzier than the mornings.

Bend, Or, where the conference was held for it's third year, was beautiful.
Snowing, freezing, sunny, hot. Truly a well cared for city. The conference
really affirmed the welcoming feeling of the Ruby community. There were
moments of me saying dumb things with responses of clarity and support.
I am on a mission to reflect myself in an honest manner and have been rewarded
for this direction. I hope to learn from this and respond to others with
the same grace. My teacher recognized some changes of comprehension after
the conference - I wonder how much of this was due to the presentations or
the laid back conversations about coding that helped. Either way I feel really
good about where I am in the program. I might not get 100% of what is happening
but the context is starting to become clear. There's a Zen to this and I
am starting to see it.